
          DANGER IN DEEP SPACE




            THE TOM CORBETT
          SPACE CADET STORIES

           By Carey Rockwell

          STAND BY FOR MARS!
         DANGER IN DEEP SPACE

            [Illustration]


  A TOM CORBETT Space Cadet Adventure

              DANGER IN
              DEEP SPACE

          By CAREY ROCKWELL

     WILLY LEY Technical Adviser

GROSSET & DUNLAP _Publishers_ New York

         COPYRIGHT, 1953, BY
           ROCKHILL RADIO


         ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

         _Illustrations by_
           LOUIS GLANZMAN

 PRINTED IN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA




ILLUSTRATIONS


 _Frontispiece_

The three weary cadets assembled on the control deck               13

The junior spaceman maneuvered the great rocket ship
toward the air lock                                                36

The jet cab raced along the highway to Venusport                   54

Tom could see two space-suited figures floating effortlessly       76

Mason was frozen into a rigid statue, unable to move              133

"Remember," Astro cautioned, "set the fuse for two hours"         161

Landing, they would tumble out of the jet boat and begin
their frantic digging                                             180

"I know we're going to be sent to the prison asteroid and
we deserve it," said Loring                                       206




DANGER IN DEEP SPACE




CHAPTER 1


"Stand by to reduce thrust on main drive rockets!" The tall,
broad-shouldered officer in the uniform of the Solar Guard snapped out
the order as he watched the telescanner screen and saw the Western
Hemisphere of Earth looming larger and larger.

"Aye, aye, Captain Strong," replied a handsome curly-haired Space Cadet.
He turned to the ship's intercom and spoke quickly into the microphone.

"Control deck to power deck. Check in!"

"Power deck, aye," a bull-throated voice bellowed over the loud-speaker.

"Stand by rockets, Astro! We're coming in for a landing."

"Standing by!"

The Solar Guard officer turned away from the telescanner and glanced
quickly over the illuminated banks of indicators on the control panel.
"Is our orbit to Space Academy clear?" he asked the cadet. "Have we been
assigned a landing ramp?"

"I'll check topside, sir," answered the cadet, turning back to the
intercom. "Control deck to radar deck. Check in!"

"Radar bridge, aye," drawled a lazy voice over the speaker.

"Are we cleared for landing, Roger?"

"Everything clear as glass ahead, Tom," was the calm reply.

"We're steady on orbit and we touch down on ramp seven. Then"--the voice
began to quicken with excitement--"three weeks' liberty coming up!"

The rumbling voice of the power-deck cadet suddenly broke in over the
intercom. "Lay off that space gas, Manning. Just see that this space
wagon gets on the ground in one piece. Then you can dream about your
leave!"

"Plug your jets, you big Venusian ape man," was the reply, "or I'll turn
you inside out!"

"Yeah? You and what fleet of spaceships?"

"Just me, buster, with my bare hands!"

The Solar Guard officer on the control deck smiled at the young cadet
beside him as the good-natured argument crackled over the intercom
speaker overhead. "Looks like those two will never stop battling,
Corbett," he commented dryly.

"Guess they'll never learn, sir," sighed the cadet.

"That's all right. It's when they stop battling that I'll start getting
worried," answered the officer. He turned back to the controls. "One
hundred thousand feet from Earth's surface! Begin landing procedure!"

As Cadet Tom Corbett snapped orders into the intercom and his unit-mates
responded by smooth co-ordinated action, the giant rocket cruiser
_Polaris_ slowly arched through Earth's atmosphere, first nosing up to
lose speed and then settling tailfirst toward its destination--the
spaceport at Space Academy, U.S.A.

Far below, on the grounds of the Academy, cadets wearing the green
uniforms of first-year Earthworms and the blue of the upper-classmen
stopped all activity as they heard the blasting of the braking rockets
high in the heavens. They stared enviously into the sky, watching the
smooth steel-hulled spaceship drop toward the concrete ramp area of the
spaceport, three miles away.

[Illustration: SPACE ACADEMY U.S.A.]

In his office at the top of the gleaming Tower of Galileo, Commander
Walters, commandant of Space Academy, paused for a moment from his
duties and turned from his desk to watch the touchdown of the great
spaceship. And on the grassy quadrangle, Warrant Officer Mike McKenny,
short and stubby in his scarlet uniform of the enlisted Solar Guard,
stopped his frustrating task of drilling newly arrived cadets to watch
the mighty ship come to Earth.

Young and old, the feeling of belonging to the great fleet that
patrolled the space lanes across the millions of miles of the solar
system was something that never died in a true spaceman. The green-clad
cadets dreamed of the future when they would feel the bucking rockets in
their backs. And the older men smiled faintly as memories of their own
first space flight came to mind.

Aboard the _Polaris_, the young cadet crew worked swiftly and smoothly
to bring their ship to a safe landing. There was Tom Corbett, an average
young man in this age of science, who had been selected as the
control-deck and command cadet of the _Polaris_ unit after rigid
examinations and tests. Topside, on the radar bridge, was Roger Manning,
cocky and brash, but a specialist in radar and communications. Below, on
the power deck, was Astro, a colonial from Venus, who had been accused
of cutting his teeth on an atomic rocket motor, so great was his skill
with the mighty "thrust buckets," as he lovingly called the atomic
rockets.

Now, returning from a routine training flight that had taken them to the
moons of Jupiter, the three cadets, Corbett, Manning, and Astro, and
their unit skipper, Captain Steve Strong, completed the delicate task of
setting the great ship down on the Academy spaceport.

"Closing in fast, sir," announced Tom, his attention focused on the
meters and dials in front of him. "Five hundred feet to touchdown."

"Full braking thrust!" snapped Strong crisply.

Deep inside the _Polaris_, braking rockets roared with unceasing power,
and the mighty spaceship eased itself to the concrete surface of the
Academy spaceport.

"Touchdown!" yelled Tom. He quickly closed the master control lever,
cutting all power, and sudden silence filled the ship. He stood up and
faced Strong, saluting smartly.

"Rocket cruiser _Polaris_ completes mission"--he glanced at the astral
chronometer on the panel board--"at fifteen thirty-three, sir."

"Very well, Corbett," replied Strong, returning the salute. "Check the
_Polaris_ from radar mast to exhaust ports right away."

"Yes, sir," was Tom's automatic answer, and then he caught himself. "But
I thought--"

Strong interrupted him with a wave of his hand. "I know, Corbett, you
thought the _Polaris_ would be pulled in for a general overhaul and you
three would get liberty."

"Yes, sir," replied Tom.

"I'm not sure you won't get it," said Strong, "but I received a message
last night from Commander Walters. I think the _Polaris_ unit might have
another assignment coming up!"

"By the rings of Saturn," drawled Roger from the open hatch to the radar
bridge, "you might know the old man would have another mission for us!
We haven't had a liberty since we were Earthworms!"

"I'm sorry, Manning," said Strong, "but you know if I had my way, you'd
certainly get the liberty. If anyone deserves it, you three do."

By this time Astro had joined the group on the control deck.

"But, sir," ventured Tom, "we've all made plans, I mean--well, my folks
are expecting me."

"_Us_, you mean," interrupted Roger. "Astro and I are your guests,
remember?"

"Sure, I remember," said Tom, smiling. He turned back to Captain Strong.
"We'd appreciate it if you could do something for us, sir. I
mean--well, have another unit assigned."

Strong stepped forward and put his arms around the shoulders of Tom and
Roger and faced Astro. "I'm afraid you three made a big mistake in
becoming the best unit in the Academy. Now every time there's an
important assignment to be handed out the name of the _Polaris_ unit
sticks out like a hot rocket!"

"Some consolation," said Roger dourly.

Strong smiled. "All right, check this wagon and then report to me in my
quarters in the morning. You'll have tonight off at least. Unit
_dis_-missed!"
